Hall can tell you, Hall was my hero.
He used to stand up there and shout.
He was the first guy who gave me a geography list.
Bazell Hall was across the avenue, and he would scream, Vietnamese, release our flyers.
I said, what the hell is a Vietnamese?
He said, man, they're from Vietnam.
Don't you read the paper?
This was back in the 50s.
The French were getting their butt whipped.
Evidently, we had some guys over there flying, and they had captured them.
What did you guys do during a basketball game at G. Raleigh?
Oh, went and raised hell.
You know, we knew all the basketball players and, you know, we'd take turns hazing them or hazing the other team.
The football team sat right behind the opponent's bench and leather lunged them.
And, you know, your job was to get under their skin.
That's where I wasn't much of an athlete, but I was a, I was all-conference at Leather Lungen people, you know.
Did Leffler, Coach Leffler, identify with the student body very well?
Not really.
If he did, I never caught him at it.
He was, yeah, he was an Eastern guy that, uh, uh,
I don't think he was a happy man there.
And you stayed with the track team your sophomore year?
Yeah.
I tore my hamstring again my sophomore year and that was, you know.
That was it.
Then when you go home that summer, did you go to summer camp?
Yeah, I went to summer camp.
Describe summer camp for you as an Aggie.
Well, it was wonderful.
We went to Fort Sill?
No, no, no.
I'm an Air Force pal.
Oh.
So, we went out.
And of course, being from A&M, and you have all these Air Force ROTC guys, you know.
We're cock of the walk out there.
We went to a couple of different bases.
Which one?
We were out near Las Vegas.
We went down to Florida to
down there by, went to the beach.
Boy, they had a great beach down there at, I think it's Eglin, maybe, that's down there.
Pensacola?
In that area.
I'm trying to remember the little town that's there.
I went back with a buddy who has a beach house down there now.
First time I'd been back in a long time.
But, you know, the thing I remember most about it is, you know, we knew how to march, make up a bed,
shine our brass.
We stood out from all the rest of them.
You know, we were the top cadet.
Well, if you were the top cadet every week, the top cadet got to go down the gunnery range with an F-100.
And, of course, they tried to make everybody sick, you know.
And he who bars has to clean it up.
And boy I really bore down because I wanted that ride in that F-100 and I got to do that.
And that was a big thrill until I got to fly the F-16.
Now that, you know, in between those two things technology changed.
That was a Model A compared to that F-16.
Were you a proud Aggie at summer camp?
Oh yeah.
I mean, you know, we were the top cadets.
And they were, you know, if they were ground pounders or air crappers, whatever they were, when you, you know, the things that you were learning and that you took for granted at A&M, you found out, you know, separated you from the crowd.
Did the leadership that was there, the active duty people, did they seem to have a respect for Aggies?
Well, hell yes.
I mean, that's, they were the ones grading our paper.
And that was, you know, Haskell, if we had had a war, there's not a doubt in my mind, I would have been a fire pilot ace.
Because, you know, they took crazy people in, you know, that were like that.
In a peacetime ROTC at Texas A&M, they changed it.
My junior year, they said, we don't want all these hell raisers holding, they're teaching the wrong things.
Everybody here, you know, they had a,
A multi-engine attitude is what we refer to.
You know, that guy's got a multi-engine attitude.
And A&M produced fighter pilots.
Now they had to comb the ranks to find some Percy Mims and guys like good guys, but that were
I'll tell you, the cadet commander of our senior year just, you know, had a distinguished career with Texas, a great guy, Bill Hyatt.
We're up for our reunion last year, let's see, 1960 to... That's H-Y-E.
Yeah, H-Y-E, Bill.
1960, I guess 2000, we're up for our 40-year reunion.
And I said, you know, I want to do this thing where we raise the money.
I've got Mickey Hershkowitz writing a book about 3019.
I said, recently they were talking about changing the name of the Joe Route on the other side to making it Kimbrough over there.
And I said...
held nine of the regents, and the chancellor of the university did not know who John Kimbrough was.
And I said, well, who is John Kimbrough?
I said, you know, you goddamn grade point queer, that's, you know, you've just proved my point.
We used to drown high out.
He was, you know, a guy, he and a bunch of those guys got vaulted over everybody because
They were neat dressers.
They kept their nose clean.
They studied all the time.
And the, and the tack officer loved them because they didn't give them any trouble.
Meanwhile, you know, we were drowning out the tack officers.
Poor old Colonel Melcher.
We had a water fight and I didn't know it was him.
and had one of those trash cans full of water.
He's coming in to stop it.
It hit him on it first and it knocked his hat just all the way down his neck, knocked the top of it out.
And we're up on the roof.
And we just thought as a guy, you couldn't tell from up there, you know, at night.
And he comes up on the roof and there he is dripping wet with all that scrambled eggs knocked off down around his neck.
And he later thought it was, I mean, Melcher, you know, he was a hell raiser.
They said his ass looked like somebody played bumbly peg on it because he put on boots and walked down the senior walk near the elephant walk as a freshman.
They look back, here comes freshman Melcher, you know, and he said, now that's, you've gone too far.
But Melcher had some fire in his ass and he appreciated other people that did.
Those were my heroes.
And that's who I patterned myself after and thought that was,
You know, fun, I mean, there was a time to raise hell in a play.
You know, it's like Bob Bob Black Sheep and that bunch.
You know, the flying tigers.
My brother flew during World War II.
And that shaped my attitudes about what pilots are supposed to be.
And they're not guys that, you know, run around with their shirt-tailed, tucked in, kissing somebody's ass.
They're people that know you party like hell and then, you know, you fly like hell.
Now, you come back as a junior, and do you— Immediately— Is that when you have the conversation with Rudder, or is it your senior year?
No, no, no.
It's going into my senior year.
I was there the fall of my junior year, and that's when H.L.
Heaton— Oh.
I was hot and heavy with this girl down in Austin, and that's when I had the thing.
The prof wouldn't let me take the finals, said I wasn't Jack Raines.
That became a big, you know, they talked about it at the business school.
He evidently came up with some faculty thing, and he got on my record, and I mean, that's when he said, you know, this is exactly the kind of son of a bitch we need to get out of here.
They had the Corps was changing all this.
This guy's a hell raiser, and he's a bad influence in the Corps, and these guys, you know, we've got to break this up, da-da, da-da, da-da.
So you go to Lamar Tech?
They throw my ass out of there.
All right, and then you come back as a senior?
Yeah, I made top grades at Lamar, and my mother comes up to see Rudder, unbeknownst to me, and Rudder just, you know, looks at my transcript, looks at everything.
Later on, you know, Margaret said, Earl said they probably shouldn't have thrown you out, and at any other time they wouldn't have, but you were visible, you were a leader for the kind of things they didn't want leadership in, and that, uh,
You were better off gone, because see, you know, your junior year they decided who's going to lead everything on senior year.
Well, I was exactly the kind of guy they didn't want.
So you come back in the fall of 59?
59 as a slick-sleeved
DNC in the Corps, derailing ceremony.
But you lived over in the Corps area?
Sure, with my buddies.
I mean, you know, it's still all male, all military.
I'm not a veteran.
How did, how had your attitude and behavior changed?
Well, at that time, you know, I said, man, you know, there's no way I'm going to, you know, I'm going to make it in this military environment.
So then they came back and they said,
They, you know, they had invested in me.
They said, we've got an investment in you.
Said, if you'll take a category one flight contract, we'll reinstate you.
But it would have gone to five years.
And I had originally started on a three year, and I said, well, I'll do the three years.
So we negotiate through, you know, I had a series of meetings and, you know, I wanted them to honor my three year deal.
They said, no, you know, I knew things five years.
I said, well, that's for the people to start now.
Well, you're really starting again and you ought to do it five years.
So this argument goes on.
Long story short, I wind up in my senior year, I'm graduating from A&M and... You ready?
Yeah.
I'll wrap this up.
I'm graduating from A&M and they're...
I'm not going to get any kind of contract.
So they write my draft board.
I graduated.
Before they averaged in all my hours I transferred and my correspondence course, I had one extra grade point.
Were you a member of any extracurricular activity group, organization?
MSC organizations or anything?
Oh, you'd have to look in the annual.
I can't remember what I listed there.
Basically, I spend most of my time trying to stay off campus, go to Austin.
Did you go to any local religious events?
No.
Haskell, my sister, who was big in the Church of Christ and all that bunch, they beat on me pretty good.
I was going through a period in my life where I
I'd been raised in a very strict upbringing and I was trying to put as much distance between me and that structure as I could and that was, I was very irregular church attendance at the time and so about the things that
The core, athletics, and my buddies, I was not a very good Aggie in the traditional sense.
I was a student leader.
Someone said they had a thing who was the best known people in the class.
You know, this was in the reunion.
They said, Reigns, you held no officers.
You did nothing.
It said, but everyone knew you because you were a legend on campus.
And I'm afraid my legend status, Mirsky, Myers, and I,
We were legends of the wrong type, and they probably did everyone a favor trying to weed us all out.
I didn't become a leader until I went to law school.
I got out, got married, worked, went back to law school.
Now, when I was in law school, I was president of the student government.
So when I got to law school, you know,
I applied myself both as a student and as a student leader.
So I got to lead the delegation back to SCONA, the U of H delegation.
And I was named a Who's Who in American Colleges and Universities from the University of Houston, not from A&M.
So it's really a tale of two cities.
In that era, how did you and your buddies get blind dates?
We didn't get blind dates.
Oh, you didn't get any blind dates?
No, I mean that, meeting girls was never a problem.
When they came to College Station, where did they stay?
Where did they spend the night?
I always held out for a motel.
Their parents wanted them to stay at some prof's house.
My freshman year, I parked a couple of girls at prof's houses, as was the custom then.
But boy, that was worse, dating them at home.
They could stay out later at home than they could there.
And it was pretty confining.
And so, you know, the big breakthrough was when you could get one that could come down, that could stay, you know, get a motel room, put a couple of girls there, and we'd have parties at the motels.
And that was wild big time stuff in Bryan College Station.
What were the big social events that Aggies went to?
They were called Austin and Houston.
Those were the big social events.
Sin Alley in Houston was a big social event.
All those apartments out there where the stewardesses were around Love Field were big social events.
Austin with all of its sorority houses and the things that went on at the lake.
College Station was, it was pretty drab back in the 50s, Haskell.
When Aggies drank, what were their favorite beverages?
Anything that was cheap.
If you could get a keg of beer, you know, you brought the price down.
You'd go out to, there was a, we'd go out to Whiskey Bridge and the cheapest thing they sold by the court was called Old Crab Orchard.
And it was about two degrees this side of rubbing alcohol, all with food coloring.
It was bad stuff.
Varnish remover.
Did they drink that straight or did they pour it into?
You poured anything.
Some of them made bathtub gin.
If you had a chemical engineering major in the outfits, you'd produce all sorts of wonderful things and wash tubs.
It's a wonder all of us didn't go blind or something.
mixing fat batches for parties, you know.
What did people smoke?
Well, one of my jobs up there is Marlboro made me a distributor of free cigarettes.
I was very popular that semester.
You know, mostly OPs.
Those were other people.
Cigarettes, you know, buying cigarettes.
And I didn't smoke when I, you know, when I was jocking around.
I was not much of a smoker in college.
All right, those who did, though, they're smoking cigarettes, pipes?
Oh, there were a couple of pretentious people who wanted to smoke a pipe.
Cigars?
They were the same kind of guys that, you know, had big keychains.
Yeah, we'd smoke cigars at Bonfire, or if you went out on a beer bust, we'd go out to the clay pits, you know, get barbecue from Duncan Mess Hall and a keg of beer and go out to the clay pits.
bring cigars and tell lies to each other.
What drugs did Aggies even know existed then?
Study pills.
They sold them at the North Gate and you could buy them.
They were called study pills and it was just pure old speed.
You'd take a couple of those and you couldn't get your eyes closed for two days.
You were wired.
Did y'all even know the word heroin or marijuana?
I mean, I knew what marijuana was from Port Arthur, and heroin was something that, you know, you knew about people taking who were dope fiends, that's what you called them.
Some dope fiend might take heroin, but there was not a drug culture.
I mean, the drug of choice was keg beer.
There was some drinking, but not like when my kids went to school up there.
Boy, I think they have a real drinking problem on college campuses now where people just drink to distraction.
We couldn't have ever afforded to get that drunk.
The beer was 20 cents, or 19, something like that.
So you take a dollar and have five beers, and if you hadn't gotten a buzz off five beers, there's something wrong with you.
If I had wanted to be a highly recognized student leader in those days, what office or position would I have sought?
Well, when I got down there our freshman year, you know, be a company commander was, that was, you know, a great job.
You had your own outfit.
You know, the further up the pecking order, staff positions were kind of ceremonial.
Guys, you had a little staff, but the company commander ran his outfit.
And it was real hands-on management experience.
And was the corps commander the most visible student leader?
Definitely.
I mean, he was the guy that was always, you know, hobnobbing with the presidents and that sort of thing.
There was always within the corps there was really, there was the leadership that had the approval of the college and then there was the leadership.
And in my freshman and sophomore year they were damn near one and the same.
By my junior and senior year, there really evolved a differentiation because we went through a transition.
I don't know how it is, you know, now.
As far as you and your buddies knew, how did you get to be one of those leaders?
What was the track?
Well, it started off, it was peer approval my freshman and sophomore year.
And then it changed, you know, the, you know, the seniors didn't pick the junior leaders.
The juniors didn't pick sophomore leaders.
Sophomore didn't, you know,
It had changed to the TAC officers ran everything, and they made the decision.
And it was generally on who they thought had grades and would listen to and follow directions.
I always, even in grade school, got a needs improvement and listens to and follows directions.
How prestigious or how visible were the Yale leaders, the band members?
Oh, the Yale leaders, you know, they're popularly elected by students.
I mean, they were real student leaders, you know, that were selected there.
People... Student government was not that big a deal in my eyes at A&M because, you know, that was kind of something that they met and talked about, you know, bullshit.
I mean, everything happened around the core, and that was... We were more like a Greek model of city-states that existed, the outfits out there.
You know, it took...
It took a foreign army to unite us.
The Longhorns could unite all Aggies.
When we were left alone, we were fighting amongst ourselves and drowning each other out.
Did you and your buddies have a high regard for the band, for the scene cadets, for the MSC leadership?
Well, I mean, I, you know, admire and respected those guys because they got their job done.
The band did a great job.
You know, we drowned them out and called them BQs and all that kind of stuff.
But it was, you know, it was good bullshit back and forth.
And as far as the people that ran the MSC, we thought that was...
you know, important because, you know, we'd lobby them for who we wanted on campus, this, that, and the other.
Did you know then or later about any Aggie secret fraternities?
If they existed, it was obviously not on the inside.
I mean, I think that was before my time we heard about all that stuff.
If there were secret fraternities, I wasn't aware of it.
Totally escaped me.
All right.
The notable people on the campus.
This man, Rudder, when did you, as far as you know, when did you first hear about him coming to A&M?
Do you remember?
Yeah.
I mean, he was just bigger than life.
You know, there's Earl Rudder.
I mean, he's General Rudder.
And there was, you knew him, you made, there was never any doubt about who was in charge.
Earl Rutter was a man's man.
And he didn't have to tell you, you know, he was, you know, I am the president here or anything.
He walked in the room, you knew who in the hell the president was.
I used to say, they said, well, when you went to China, how did you figure out who was in charge?
I said, it's real simple.
You know, who sits down first and who goes through the door first.
I mean, they all look alike, but you know, there's a pecking order.
You remember I told you I learned about pecking orders early on as a boy.
And when you had that, for you, life-changing
session with him, how did you get invited to that?
Your mother went... Well, mother had talked to him about me getting back in school.
Did you get a letter from him?
No, he sent a telegram to be in his office at 0800 hours on such and such a date.
A telegram?
Yes, sir, you get your ass up here at this time, you know.
And how were you dressed when you went in?
What were you wearing?
I wore a pair of khakis, and I had on, no, I wasn't, you know, this was in the summer.
I had on a pair of khaki pants, like, you know, you wore khakis or blue jeans, and khakis were kind of a dress pant.
I had on a pair of khakis, and I had a, you know, iron shirt.
did look squared away my shoes were shined you know did you have any idea what this meeting was really well i you know i'd made i'd written a letter make an application to be readmitted a and m but i didn't ever you know you didn't know whether it was a yay or nay well but i couldn't imagine the president get involved and you know
I mean, I am like, you know, a whale turd in the ocean, you know, at the deepest part, and the president's going to say something to you.
I mean, that was, I figured, you know, I thought my first reaction is, God, what have we done that they just found out about, and that, you know, he's going to, what they've thrown me out, what else can they do to me?
And I told mother, I said, well, I've got to go to A&M, and she wanted to know what the telegram was about.
She didn't tell me she had talked to Rudder, and I said, well, you know, General Rudder won't sue me.
And she said, well, what do you think it's about?
I said, well, I applied to get back in, but I can't imagine he's concerned about that.
And she said, well, what are you going to do?
I said, well, I'm going to be in his office in 0800 hours.
And I mean, there wasn't any doubt about what I was going to do.
Was this in the Koch building?
Mm-hmm.
No, this was...
He had moved over, he had an office in... The old system building?
The system building then.
What we then called it.
At least, yeah.
I guess, you know, I guess that was, you know, I didn't know where in the hell he officed until, you know, I guess he'd been there all the time.
Do you remember how long the meeting lasted?
Oh, a better part of an hour.
Really?
Oh, yeah.
He spent a lot of time reviewing things with me.
Tell me about this, Raines.
What were you thinking when this happened?
Do you see, you know,
Do you see, you know, if you learned anything, then we'd go to the next one.
And, you know, he'd just give me his view of it and chew on me a little bit more.
And, you know, I can't believe anybody's this dumb.
What were you thinking about?
Now, I've had reports.
I've done a lot of it.
You know, I've had reports about so-and-so and so-and-so.
Is there anything you want to say about that?
No, sir.
Well, are you denying that you did it?
Well, then you did do it.
Well, yes, sir.
near enough that you know i'm not going to argue about it well that's a start you know they can go to the next and he had all kinds of notes you know he talked obviously he talked to my tack officer they accused me of having a girl in a dorm they could never prove it and uh a lot of things like that that were conduct unbecoming
And did he give you any, at the end of it, were there any final words that?
Well, I told you.
He told me, he said, you know, if, you know, should they reach a decision to let you back in here?
You know, what's going to be your attitude?
I said, well, I want to graduate, you know.
I said, General, I'm, you know, getting a degree from A&M has been my mama's goal all of her life, something I want to do, you know.
I was, I said, this is, you know, he said, are you just up here to have a good time or something?
You know.
So you don't seem serious about anything.
You know, everyone says you have leadership ability and you have applied your abilities to lead people in the wrong direction.
You know, everyone says, you know, HL Heaton says that anyone who can maintain the academic record you do with as little effort could be an outstanding student.
What is your program?
What do you, you know, and you know General Rudd, I mean, he could,
He could get to the lower right-hand corner pretty quick.
And were there any last words?
Well, I told you the story that he, the story about somewhere there's a sergeant, you know, it's screwed up.
Did you get that on tape?
Yes.
You want me to, okay, well, you know what that's.
And did, as you walked?
I mean, he focused me as I, you know.
And that conversation did have an effect on your life?
Oh, it stuck with me because I, you know,
It was not a threat.
It was a promise.
He had the means to deliver on that promise, and there was no doubt in my mind that he had the resolve to deliver on that promise.
Now, on the other hand, I wanted to achieve what he was motivating me to achieve.
Now, those two things came together, which helped me make a lot of decisions later on.
Am I going to take off and go to Austin this weekend?
No, I'm going to get my ass ready for that quiz on Monday because I've got to do it.
Am I going to cut that class?
No, I'm going to be in class.
Because H.L.
Heaton called me in when I was readmitted.
And he said, Mr. Raines, I want to tell you something.
I have got you on a watch list, and I'm going to be checking your attendance in every class.
And said, if it were left up to me, and I've told President Roosevelt, I would not admit you.
You know, let's understand each other.
You start cutting classes again, mister, and you won't get to the finals.
So, you know.
So what was your attendance record?
Oh, I think, you know, I got the flu one time.
I had, I mean, so bad I couldn't, you know, I had to walk in pneumonia.
And I missed two or three days classes, went to the quack shack.
They sent me into the, you know, shot me full of antibiotics.
And I said, can I have a doctor's note?
They said, well, you know, you're in college.
I said, I need a note from the doctor.
I sent it over to Sheetan.
I wanted him to know I was really sick.
And how well did you do academically that year?
I did.
I had a very good year, you know.
I had to.
And when you left that day, you drove back to Port Arthur?
That session with Mr. Rutter?
I went over to Austin to see my girlfriend.
Oh, okay.
What did you tell your, when you told your mom?
Well, see, they didn't tell me I was back in.
Oh, oh.
You know, he said, should you be, you know, readmitted?
How did you learn you were back in?
I got a letter that said my application for readmission had been granted.
They had received my transcript from Lamar, because, you know, I had to get that transcript sent up there.
And I really thought I'd go back to A&M and go to summer school.
They wouldn't let me go to summer school, which put me under a lot of pressure my senior year to try to get the required courses.
You had to have, I think you had to have a 1-5 or something in your major, you know.
And for me to get up to a one five, I had to, you know, damn near have a three point from that, you know, to meet all these requirements and get these courses.
It was it was like registration.
OK, you've got to run this and do this all at the same time and balance this on your nose and hop.
That was my senior year.
That senior year you lived on campus.
Absolutely.
You were a drill and ceremonies cadet and participated in all of the
Rituals and activities and so on.
I started off as a slick sleeve.
Somewhere along the way they decided that I'd earn my way to two buttons.
So I became a two button man, which I thought about telling them I wasn't interested in that.
But I thought, no, they'll think that's a bad attitude.
So I took my two buttons with grateful acknowledgement.
Did you get involved in any hazing or...
Let me tell you, the whole time I was there, I was the freshman's friend.
You know, I might stop and bullshit with them or haze them in a sense, or like Ross Margrave, he'll tell you, Ross, you know, there's been a regent up there.
Ross pulled up on campus my senior year, and I looked out, and I didn't have a car on campus, and I looked out, and here's this brand new convertible parked in my parking place that was a sand to me.
Can you watch him?
I'm going to go.
Okay.
Come here.
Make sure he stays in here.
Has he got one?
Yeah, but he could have been in trouble.
Okay.
And so I called the freshman.
I said, see that freshman out there in my parking place?
He said, yes, sir.
He said, I'll go tell him to move.
I said, no.
You tell him to leave that car right there, and you tell him to come up there.
He was out there with his girlfriend, his parents.
I said, see?